That is radix sort, I'm gonna give you
some time now to work on the exercise,
just head over to your code sandbox.
Head over to the radix sort test dot js,
and then we'll come back and
we'll do this exercise together.
So, let's do the get digit function first,
so
const string equals number two string.
Reason why we do this is now we
can actually use chart at, right,
which is a little kit that allows us
to return one part of the number.
You also totally could have done
some mathematics with mod and
that would work as well
that might even be easier.
I don't know this is the way I did it,
you can do it however you want to.
Okay, const size equals string dot length,
const mod equals, longest number,
minus size and then we return string.
place minus mod or 0.
So now this will return, so
now I can just use this getdigit
function to get back a specific
digit that I'm looking for.
Okay, get longest number, there's
again many ways to figure this out.
But what we're gonna do here is,
let longest equals to 0.
I mean, you could do this with a reduce.
There's a bunch of ways to do this,
but let's just do it with for
a for loop, set like fortnight,
no, it's not.
Alright, let i equals zero,
i is less than My get longest number
right should be an array is less than
array dot length i plus plus and
then counts current length.
Length equals array
at i dot 2 string dot
length, right.
So if this was 3000, this would return
current length would be 4, right?
And I'm just looking for
what the longest number is there so
I can know what to provide
get digit up here.
Okay, and then I'm gonna say,
longest equals current length.
Is greater than longest,
then it's gonna be
equal to current length,
otherwise longest.
This is a ternary for those of you
that are not familiar with it,
it's just a condensed if statement right?
So if current length is longer than
the new longest will be the current length
otherwise it will stay what it
already was which is longest.
You could totally put this
in an if statement as well,
I just like turn arrays, okay,
then down here we return longest.
So now we have a function that'll get
us the longest number in array, cool.
Const longest number is equal get
the longest number with the array.
So that's that, okay, here we just need
to create the data structure
that we're going to use.
I just did like a little shortcut here
a const buckets equals new array.
Of length 10 dot fill,
Dot map, And this will just fill
it with brand new empty arrays.
You totally could have made a for loop or
something like that would make these
buckets as well, but suppose we say this
line 42 all it does is it creates
an array of 10 empty arrays, right?
Cool.
So let's do this then we'll do a for
loop, let i equals 0.
I'm sorry,
let i equal longest number minus 1.
I is greater than or
equal to zero, i minus minus.
So we're gonna start like if this is,
4 is the longest up here,
then we're to start at 3,
we're going to go down to 0, okay?
First thing in here is while
there's something in the array.
So while array dot length.
We're gonna say const current
equals array dot shift, so
we're gonna pull the first thing off
the array, I'm gonna say buckets,
Getdigit, Current, i, longest number.
Calling this getDigit function
that we have up here, right?
Dot push current, okay,
so we'll have those ten arrays, right?
And we're just enqueuing it
somewhere into one of these, right?
So if this was like this one here,
let's say 1244.
For the first iteration,
it's going to grab this four number and
it's going to push it into the four spot,
the four buckets, right?
And then when we're done,
we will pull that back out.
But let's see the going back
to our little graphic here.
It's this part that we're doing,
the part where it's pushing it in.
Right, that's what this
first enqueuing is doing.
So we're pushing into these 0
through 9 buckets over here.
Okay, that's what that
while loop is gonna do.
So after this is done, we're gonna have
all of our numbers bucketed by whatever
place we're sorting by.
Okay, and then we have to go ahead and
dq all of these,
so we're gonna say for let J equal zero.
J is less than 10 J plus, plus,
you could also say,buckets
dot length, but
it's always going to be 10.
Right, unless you're gonna be like
doing hexadecimal bucket sorting.
I mean you could there's no
reason why it wouldn't work.
Why while, buckets, J dot length,
you're just going to pop them off.
Array dot push buckets J shift, so
we're going to be taking them off
of the front of the buckets and
you're going to be pushing
them onto the array.
Then down here you
are going to return array.
All right.
So let's make sure that
this is not auto running,
we're gonna take this off of skip.
And we're gonna see if
we can run this code
under radix sort make
sure that this actually
is running radix sort right there works.
So, let's take this one off to see if
it works with even bigger number sets.
Run it again and
looks like it's still working, cool.
So just for fun,
I'm gonna copy all of this.
Ones that don't need that and
let's hop over to our sort visualizer
because this actually will work for that.
And paste this over here and
I'm just going to call this
sort instead of radix.
Okay, and then we'll head over to our
little browser here, we'll click on sort.
And let's also modify
this just a second with this.
Okay, and then here,
when I call it with sort nuns.
And then here we do have to snapshot.
So, we'll first snapshot with the array,
snap shot array and let's snapshot at
the end of all every
one of these snapshot.
Here with the array, so
we're only getting seven unique snapshots,
right because we're only doing it at the
end of all the bucketing and D bucketing.
We could code up a more
capable bucket visualizer but
this is what we have for right now.
But notice after one iteration
all the zeros are at
the beginning 1, right, 2,3,4,5,
right, and
then after the second iteration,
it's 0,01,02,03,05,06.
Right, after the third iteration,
it's sorted by the hundreds,
so 001,002,008, so on and so forth.
After the third iteration, it's sorted by
the thousands than the tens of thousands.
And then afterwards,
this bottom one is totally sorted.
Pretty wild, right, I can't imagine
how people come up with these things.
So the question is, what's mod here,
I didn't know what to call it.
[LAUGH] Because you need
the last number in the array and
then we're counting backwards, right?
Which is a weird way to do math and
code, right.
So on the zero with iteration I need
the ones place which is going to be
the last index in the string, right?
So if I have, let's say,
the longest number is 100.
And I'm asking for the zero with element,
actually the two index of that string,
right?
So, this took me a bit of trial and
error to get this exactly right.
So if it took you some trial error or you
didn't find like couldn't figure it out,
I do not blame you.
This actually probably took me 20 minutes
of just like following my brow with my
computer before I finally figured it out.
Valid question, does this kind of
defeat the purpose of the entire
sword like in terms of
like its complexity?
Let's go with yes and no,
sorted slash, it depends, right,
everyone loves that damn answer now.
One, you're not really doing
much heavy lifting here, right?
Like you're not doing any comparisons,
you're not doing anything like that
really you're just asking for the length.
So on one hand, not particularly,
on the other hand,
you are looking at every number here and
grabbing the lengths.
We do need this longest number just to
make sure that the math here is correct.
I'm sure there's probably a more
efficient way of doing this.
But this is already hard
enough to conceptualize.
So I wanted to kind of take a shortcut so
that you all could probably focus on
the more important part of this,
which is the bucketing part of this, but
you could probably What
do I want to say here,
you could probably combine this
into one more effective function.
Right, but I didn't wanna overload
you with with concepts here.
And in other words, I haven't
thought of a better way to do it but
there probably is one.
But I guess another thing I would say
is like if you were actually deploying
radix sort in production and
you were writing the code yourself.
You'd probably have to have some knowledge
beforehand of what kind of ranges of
numbers you'd be dealing with, right?
Well, I imagined many
of you did get met and
some of you probably
didn't get it as well.
That's totally fine, this is kind of
again, a difficult one to conceptualize.
But hopefully you're grasping at
least the the method here, right?
I'm actually less concerned that you
successfully pass the unit test and
I'm more concerned about does
the sort makes sense to you.
Like that's the most important thing
here is like this, this kind of pattern
of like, hey, let's take this apart and
compare things piece by piece, right?
That kind of concept is one that I really
want you to walk away with here, because
that actually could be useful to you later
while you're writing code somewhere.
You also totally could write radix sort
for something like strings, right?
Instead of queueing this buckets here,
in an array of 10,
this could be an array of 26.
If you're doing like the English alphabet,
right?
And you could do bucket sorting that way,
or radix sort rather using letters,
right, that totally works as well or
hexadecimal.
And it would be 16 buckets or binary
actually, binaries are really effective.
Use case for this, right, because
you would just be queuing zeros and
ones, right?
We should go pretty fast, so, yeah,
just another interesting kind
of arrow to keep in your quiver.